Aren't we all glad that we are healthy enough to be able to listen to the Annual Meeting Program?
Yes, we don't want to take it for granted.
Worldwide, some 20,000 of our brothers and sisters died so far from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.
But tens of thousands of our brothers and sisters, including many relatives, have been and are now affected emotionally by this fact.
Death toll affects friends and family, and the feeling of loss is deep.
Secular sources say that the overall death rate in the United States is about 1% of the population each year.
Every year around the world an average of over 60 million people die.
The daily average is about 164,000.
How sad!
With a COVID-19 plague, the number of total death worldwide is of course higher.
In the United States, over 600,000 citizens died from COVID-19 alone.
Even when tempered by the hope of the resurrection, the death of a loved one is still a traumatic loss which is deeply felt.
Years perhaps decades of close companionship and sharing are suddenly and tragically ended.
Of course, if those that died were part of our family, it affects you much more emotionally.
We are also affected because we did not expect them to die, except perhaps if somewhere in the 80s or 90s.
Even though you know that they will come back, you still feel hurt and are very sorry to have temporarily lost them.
It is very sad to lose somebody in death, even temporarily, isn't it?
In the case of Lazarus, the Bible shows that even Jesus shed tears when he saw the emotional pain experienced by Lazarus' sisters.
To be sad and to cry in the case of somebody's death is not an indication of somebody's lack of faith or an emotional imbalance.
Never feel ashamed in such a case.
Feel free to give way to tears.
At John, chapter 5, 28 and 29, Jesus promises comforting.
He said,
Do not be amazed at this because the hour is coming in which all those in the memorial tombs will hear the Son of God's voice and come out, those who did good things to a resurrection of life, those who practiced wild things to a resurrection of judgment.
However, Jehovah foretold that sickness and death will not continue forever, but a temporary now and will soon end as the new world arrives.
Even in the past, Jehovah miraculously proved that he is able to prevent sickness and subsequent death, and he proved that he has the power to bring back humans to life.
As much as we are sorry to have lost relatives and or friends in death due to COVID-19 or any other reason, we can rejoice that Jehovah will bring them back in the resurrection.
Jehovah brought back some of his servants in the resurrection in the past.
The Bible speaks of nine specific resurrections of individuals.
Instead of reading a list with their names, you can try to recall who these persons were.
If you don't come up with the nine persons, why not make it a part of a conversation with friends to complete the list?
It refers to Jesus and eight additional ones.
It is so encouraging and comforting to talk about it.
Hebrews 11.35 speaks of a better resurrection, better than the resurrection of the eight persons mentioned in the Bible, who had to die again at the later day.
The future resurrection is better because it contains the possibility to never die again in all eternity.
Imagine to live not only for a thousand years, but for a million years, for ten million years, for a hundred million years, for a hundred billion years, and so on.
As for those being brought back in the resurrection, the resurrection will be perceived like having happened in the blink of an eye after their death, although they may have been dead for quite some time.
For instance, when Lazarus was resurrected, he did not recall that he was laying in the tomb.
When he was resurrected, to him it was like the next moment after he lost consciousness from dying.
When he came to himself, he had no perception that he was in the tomb.
Jehovah created man originally. He can also recreate a human.
Psalm 104, 29 and 30 say, when you hide your face, they are disturbed.
If you take away their spirit, they die and return to the dust.
If you send out their spirit, they are created.
Jehovah will give the resurrected ones a body just as it pleases him.
Their bodies will be physically sound and obviously look similar to their original body, so that they will be recognized by their loved ones.
Faithful Christians who die late during the time of the end will likely be among the first ones to be raised again.
We can also expect an early resurrection for some of the faithful men of old who will join others as princes in a new world.
Nevertheless, we should not be dogmatic on such matters.
On many issues related to the resurrection, the Bible is silent.
It does not spell out details of how, when or at what locations the resurrection of individuals will occur.
It does not tell us how those returning will be housed, fed and clothed.
It would be unwise to spend a lot of time trying to find answers that are at present unanswerable.
It is best to just focus on the fact of the resurrection to come.
First Corinthians 15, 52 also speaks of the resurrection, but not of an earthly resurrection, but a heavenly spiritual one.
This text refers to anointed ones who would die and be raised in the blink of an eye.
This resurrection began during our time, the time of the end.
When they die, they go to heaven in an instant, like during the blink of an eye.
But those who have the earthly hope to live forever on earth in paradise also will have the same perception later when they will be resurrected in the paradise.
The time from their death to the moment of their resurrection will not be consciously experienced by them.
It will be for them like the blinking of an eye.
Those resurrected to heaven will obtain immortality.
Those resurrected on earth will not be immortal, but have the chance to live forever as long as they remain faithful.
In connection with the ancient Israelites, Jehovah also proved that she is able to protect his people from sicknesses.
And he did it when the Israelites remained faithful.
To Tronomy 715 foretold in connection with those who escaped from Egypt, Jehovah will take away from you all sickness,
and he will not bring upon you any of the terrible diseases that you have known in Egypt.
We can trust that Jehovah fulfilled his promise.
He did so when the Israelites were faithful.
He blessed the Israelites with good health and long life.
This shows his past love for the people of Israel.
It also indicates his power and that if he wishes to repeat this miracle, he can do it of course.
He will do so after Armageddon during the millennium or a thousand year reign of Christ.
Revelation 22 verse 2 foretells the healing of the nations.
This includes physical and emotional healing in the new world.
Death is really an enemy, but Jehovah will do a way with it.
Isaiah 33, 24, it says that in the new world, quote,
no resident will say, I am sick. There will be no hospitals, there will be no drugstores, there will be no physicians, there will be no professional nurses.
In Revelation 21, 4, it foretells that in the new world there will be neither morning nor outcry nor pain anymore.
We are very sad about what happened around the world with so many of our brothers and sisters falling asleep from COVID-19 recently, but we know they will come back.
They will come back healthy, they will not come back looking like old people.
Even if they died at 80 years, they might look like they are in their 30s when resurrected.
As stated earlier, they will look reasonably similar to their original body so that they will be recognized by their loved ones.
How it fills our hearts with love for Jehovah, that he will bring back in the resurrection our loved ones.
The Apostle Paul had a firm hope. He explained at 2 Corinthians 1 verse 7,
quote, our hope for you is unwavering, knowing as we do that, just as you are shares of the sufferings, in the same way you will also share the comfort.
At the conclusion of his letter, Paul urged, continue to be comforted, and the God of love and of peace will be with you.
What an important lesson we can learn from this.
All members of the Christian congregation need to share the comfort that God provides through His Word, His Holy Spirit, and His earthly organization.
The principle source of comfort is, of course, Jehovah himself. There is no real lasting comfort that does not originate with God.
Appropriately then, Paul wrote, quote,
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of tender mercies, and the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our tribulation.
What inspiring words, the Greek word here rendered comfort, is linked to a calling to one side.
Therefore, it is the standing beside a person to encourage him when he is undergoing severe testing.
One biblical scholar wrote,
The word always means far more than soothing sympathy.
Christian comfort is the comfort which brings courage, the comfort which enables a man to cope with all that life can do to him.
It also includes comforting words that are based on a solid promise and hope, that of the resurrection of the dead.
So what can we do to enhance the comfort to others?
Listen, one of the most helpful things you can do is to share the brief ones pain by listening.
You may ask, would you care to talk about it?
One Christian recalls when his father died, it really helped me when others asked what happened and then really listened.
Listen patiently and sympathetically.
Weep with people who weep recommends the Bible at Romans 12 verse 15.
Be available, make yourself available not just for the first few days when many friends and relatives are present,
but for months later, if necessary, when others have returned to their normal routine.
Our Christian interest and sympathy can mean so much in any time of need.
The Bible says that there exists a friend sticking closer than a brother.
Talk about the good qualities of the deceased person.
This is another great help.
Share positive anecdotes that you recall about the individual and do not be afraid to use the person's name.
Write a letter or send a comforting card.
Often overlooked is the value of a condolence letter or a beautiful sympathy card.
It's advantage, it can be read over and over again.
Such a letter need not be long, but it should show your compassion.
Pray with them. Do not underestimate the value of your prayers with and for bereaved fellow Christians.
The Bible says that James 516, a righteous man's supplication has much force.
Encourage sufferers to meditate on Jehovah. He is the God of all comfort.
He said in Isaiah, I, I myself am the one that is comforting your people.
He also said, like a man whom his own mother keeps comforting, so I myself shall keep comforting you people.
Find with me Psalm 119.
Let's first read verses 50 and 52.
This is my comfort in my affliction, for your saying has preserved me alive.
Verse 52, I remember your judgments from of old Old Jehovah and I find comfort in them.
And now, even verse 76, may you alloyal love please comfort me according to the promise you made to your servant.
Note that the word comfort is used repeatedly in those passages.
Yes, we can find true comfort for ourselves and for others by turning to Jehovah's word in our time of affliction.
This combined with love and compassion of the brothers can help us to live through our loss and fill our lives again with joyful activity in the Christian ministry.
What a privilege to worship the Almighty, our loving God Jehovah, who will bring back our loved ones in the resurrection.
There will never again be a pandemic to claim the life of faithful servants, because at that time no resident will say, I am sick.